                             
Dustin Badillo
004715242
Homework 1
Exercises 1.6, 1.12, 1.19, 1.20, 1.27


Exercises 1.6
    Which of the following instructions should be privileged?
    a.Set value of timer.
b.Read the clock.
c.Clear memory.
d.Issue a trap instruction.
e.Turn off interrupts.
f.Modify entries in device-status table.
g.Switch from user to kernel mode.
h.Access I/O device.


1.12
in a multiprogramming and time-sharing environment, several users share the system simultaneously. This situation can result in various security problems.
What are two such problems?
Theft of Service: unauthorized use of a system, and Denial of Service: preventing legitimate users from using the system
Can we ensure the same degree of security in a time-shared machine as in a dedicated machine? Explain your answer.
yes , as long as the operating system can properly manage the access to memory, data, and cpu time. Without proper access to memory any user will be able to the memory of other processes while improper time management will allow any process to take control of the cpu without giving back control.

1.19
What is the purpose of interrupts? How does an interrupt differ from a trap? Can traps be generated intentionally by a user program? If so, for what purpose?

The purpose of interrupts is to request for service coming from an I/0 device, user or processes. This differs from a trap because traps are used to 

1.20
    Direct memory access is used for high-speed I/O devices in order to avoid increasing the CPU’s execution load.

How does the CPU interface with the device to coordinate the transfer?
 How does the CPU know when the memory operations are complete?
The CPU is allowed to execute other programs while the DMA controller is transferring data. Does this process interfere with the execution of the user programs? If so, describe what forms of interference are caused.

1.27
    Describe some of the challenges of designing operating systems for mobile devices compared with designing operating systems for traditional PCs.

    

